
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# SummarizeCFromN

## Contents

### Folders:

*R:* Contains the .R file for the function contained in the package

*man:* Contains documentation created by roxygen

*tests:* Contains the testing code for the function in the package

### Files:

*.Rbuildignore:* This specifies untracked files to be deliberately
ignored by Git.

*.gitignore:* This specifies untracked files to be deliberately ignored
by Git.

*DESCRIPTION* This description file includes information regarding
usage, required packages for functionality, and author information.

*LICENSE/LICENSE.md:* This details the licensing information.

*NAMESPACE:* This is a file generated by roxygen that specifies the
functions in the package to be exported.

*NEWS.md:* This is a file that documents changes made to the package.

*README.Rmd/README.md:* This file! This contains information about the
nature of the package, its contents, the aims of the project, and
example usage.

*SummarizeNFromC.Rproj:* Contains the project options and can be used as
a shortcut for opening the project directly from the file system.

# Overview

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of SummarizeNFromC is to output a tibble containing the mean,
range, and standard deviation of some numerical object as sorted into
some category. This function and package is part of the STAT 545B
assignments B1 and B2, respectively.

## Installation and how to run code

### Installation

This package is not released on CRAN. With this, you can use the
devtools package to install straight from this repository.

    devtools::install_github("AFishyButler/SummarizeNFromC")

### Running the code

Once installed, all code can be executed in RStudio from either a new or
existing project.

## Example

This is a basic example which shows the basic functionality of the
package: a tibble output containing the mean, range, and standard
deviation of the diameter of a tree dependent on cultivar.

``` r
suppressPackageStartupMessages(library(dplyr))
suppressPackageStartupMessages(library(SummarizeCFromN))

(summarize_N_from_C (datateachr::vancouver_trees, cultivar_name , diameter ))
#> # A tibble: 588 x 4
#> # Groups:   cultivar_name [294]
#>    cultivar_name  mean range    sd
#>    <chr>         <dbl> <dbl> <dbl>
#>  1 ACCOLADE      20.8    3   8.52 
#>  2 ACCOLADE      20.8   42   8.52 
#>  3 AKEBONO        7.76   0   7.93 
#>  4 AKEBONO        7.76  66   7.93 
#>  5 ALIA           5.33   5   0.289
#>  6 ALIA           5.33   5.5 0.289
#>  7 ALLGOLD        3.81   2   1.79 
#>  8 ALLGOLD        3.81  11.5 1.79 
#>  9 ALMIRA        17.4    5   8.28 
#> 10 ALMIRA        17.4   29   8.28 
#> # ... with 578 more rows
```

This function is compatible with any dataframe so long as one object is
of character class and the other is numerical.
